[Music]
good morning happy christmas welcome to
breakfast
on an exceptional christmas day and the
end of an extraordinary year
these are our headlines a deal on brexit
the prime minister shows off the
500-page agreement
in a social media video i recommend it
as
post-christmas lunch reading an extra
800 military personnel are deployed in
kent to help clear the backlog of
lorries waiting to cross to france we're
live
in dover with the latest a message of
hope from captain sir tom as he reflects
on a christmas when
millions are separated from loved ones
this year of course with things as they
are
it can't be quite the same for everyone
but things will get better and next year
we'll be all right rugby star rob burrow
looks back on a year living with motor
neuron disease
and the tale of two young lads
supporting their local hospital
and how we surprise them with the new
celebrity supporter
good morning it is a chilly start to
this christmas day but a pretty calm day
lies ahead
look out there we're going to be
battening down the hatches for storm
bella
on day it's all happening here more
coming up
[Music]
very good morning to you it's a friday
the 25th of december christmas day
for many of us of course is very
different to what we're used to
i'm coming up here on the programme
we're here for you we've got
heartwarming stories
a catch up with some old friends of the
programme and plenty of festive cheer of
course the news
as well our main story for you after the
uk and european union secured a brexit
trade deal politicians diplomats and
businesses will begin examining the
details
mps here are expected to vote on the
agreement on wednesday
our political correspondent helen cat
has more
it's little wonder that he looked so
pleased this was a big moment
a deal done after nine months of talks
and years of divisive debate
i'm very pleased to tell you this
afternoon that we have
completed the biggest trade deal yet
worth
660 billion pounds a year
a comprehensive canada style free trade
deal
between the uk and the eu in the eu the
tone was more muted but they too say
they got a good deal in the end
so we have finally found an agreement
it was a long and winding road but
we have got a good deal to show for it
it is fair it is a balanced deal
and it is the right and responsible
thing to do for both sides
the uk left the eu back in january but
nothing really changed as we've been in
a transition period ever since
this deal sets out how the uk will trade
and cooperate on security from next
friday when that ends
on wednesday mps and peers will be
called back from the christmas break to
debate it
between now and then the hundreds of
pages that make up the deal will be
carefully poured over by
many labour has said it will back it as
it says the only alternative to no deal
when this deal comes before parliament
labour will accept it and vote for it
but let me be absolutely clear
and say directly to the government up
against no deal
we accept this deal but the consequences
of it
are yours and yours alone
and we will hold you to account for it
even with this agreement things are
going to change
freedom of movement will end after next
thursday trading with the eu
won't be as easy as it was what this
deal will do is avoid
more significant disruption and prevent
customs taxes being put on goods
the deal that was never certain to
happen has now been done
unwrapping what's in it well that's just
about to start
helen cat bbc news westminster well last
night
the prime minister gave us the first
glimpse of the brexit deal that was
agreed with the eu following
months of negotiations in a video posted
on twitter boris johnson held up the
draft document which is thought to be
around
500 pages long i have a small present
for anyone who may be looking for
something to read
in that sleepy post-christmas lunch
moment and here it is
tidings glad tidings of great joy
because this is a deal a deal to give
certainty
to business and travelers and all
investors in our country
from the 1st of january a deal with our
friends
and partners in the eu
thousands of lorry drivers face spending
christmas day in their cabs near dover
an extra 800 military personnel are
being deployed to help clear the backlog
of lorries
waiting to cross the channel our
correspondent emma simpson has more
[Music]
driving home for christmas well some of
them at least
the drivers tested and covered free
lori's finally on their way but many
drivers still left behind here at
manston airfield
and desperate to get home it's false
france because france make a new law and
it's impossible to come back
to europe lori's
still stacked up on the motorway and
dotted around the county
more gridlock in dover ii a christmas
this town won't forget but things are
improving
their boosting testing capacity these
are french firefighters
they arrive to lend a hand the key thing
is making certain that we get the
testing going properly
and what that means is that we're
achieving the throughputs that will keep
the ferries
full and we're not hitting those levels
yet until we hit those levels we can't
make an estimate of how long it's going
to take
the lorries keep on coming the port is
now working through christmas
day to try to clear the backlog on this
crucial trade route
emma simpson bbc news dover
churches across the uk will be holding
scale back christmas celebrations today
the archbishop of canterbury has said
elderly and vulnerable churchgoers
should consider the risks
and not feel obliged to go to church
even for those that do go
services will feel very different and
many will be broadcast
online harry farley reports
the darkness is deep yet
light penetrates this darkness a homily
to an empty building
midnight mass at westminster cathedral
last night was streamed online
but members of the public were not
allowed to attend
[Music]
earlier cardinal vincent nichols had
presided at an afternoon service with
strict social distancing in place
but cathedral staff feared the popular
midnight mass service
would attract crowds and moved the
service online
at the vatican later today pope francis
will deliver his christmas message
indoors not from the balcony of saint
peter's and here at westminster
cathedral
cardinal nichols said the crisis was a
crossroads in our history
have we not seen in these months of
difficulty
they're marked by countless acts of
random kindness
quiet heroism selfless service
remarkable community efforts all
directed to those most in need
later today the archbishop of canterbury
is expected to say
that the darkness of this year will not
overcome the light
of christ's birth that service
like this one in westminster will be
broadcast online
across the country thousands will for
the first time today
tune in to christmas celebrations being
live streamed from their local church
rather than attending in person for
those here at westminster cathedral
despite the distance shares and limited
numbers it was a moment of solace
at the end of a difficult year harry
farley bbc news
at westminster cathedral the uk's
biggest testing lab has been hit by an
outbreak of coronavirus
a number of scientists at the lighthouse
laboratory in milton keynes are believed
to have been affected along with admin
and warehouse staff the lab which is
being asked to process around 70 000
tests a day
say it follows coveted secure work
procedures
more than a thousand people are being
evacuated from a holiday park after
heavy rain and flooding
police and firefighters have been
working through the night to rescue
those stranded
at the billing aquadrome in northampton
two leisure centers have been turned
into emergency accommodation
there are more than a hundred flood
warnings in place across parts of
england and wales i'm having the
forecast for you very shortly here on
breakfast
the queen is expected to focus on the
effects of the pandemic
in her christmas broadcast this
afternoon for the first time in more
than 30 years
she and the duke of edinburgh are
spending the festive period at
windsor instead of sandringham our royal
correspondent nicholas witchell has more
christmas 2020 a quiet day at home
this was the queen with members of her
family at windsor castle just over two
weeks ago
before the tier four coveted
restrictions were announced
there will be no family gatherings at
the castle today
instead the queen will spend christmas
day at windsor castle with the duke of
edinburgh
and a small group of staff it'll be the
first time she's spent christmas at the
castle since the 1980s
back then the castle was where the
family gathered every year for christmas
but for the past 30 years or so they've
spent christmas at sandringham
those plans were abandoned several weeks
ago
so there will be no visit to church for
morning service
that the queen will probably attend a
private moment of worship
inside the castle one thing that will
take place as normal
the queen's christmas broadcast which at
the end of such a difficult year
will have an added significance no
details have been made public in advance
but the broadcast will be an opportunity
for the queen to offer a message of
thanks and reassurance
just as she did back in april during the
first wave of the pandemic
we should take comfort that while we may
have more still to endure
better days will return we will be with
our friends again
we will be with our families again we
will meet
again but for now i send my thanks
and warmest good wishes to you all the
queen's christmas broadcast will be
transmitted on radio
and television and online nicholas
witchell
bbc news
[Music]
see the headlines as they happen and
watch bbc news live in the app and get
the full story with bbc dot co dot uk
forward slash news follow the story for
all the latest with bbc news